README.md, before:

# Car Brand Detection API

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11-blue)
![Framework](https://img.shields.io/badge/framework-FastAPI-green)
![Model](https://img.shields.io/badge/model-YOLOv5-orange)

This project is a complete, end-to-end machine learning application that identifies car brands from images. It uses a custom-trained YOLOv5 model, which has been fine-tuned to recognize 19 different car brands by learning their shapes and features, not just their logos. The final model is deployed as a high-performance web API using FastAPI.

This project was built step-by-step to bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge of the ML pipeline and a real-world, functional application that was iteratively improved based on performance analysis.

---

## Project Workflow

This project followed the complete end-to-end machine learning pipeline, including a full cycle of model analysis and improvement.

**1. Data Collection & Preparation:**
*   A high-quality dataset containing 19 car brands was sourced from Roboflow Universe.
*   The dataset was already pre-processed and labeled in the required YOLOv5 format.

**2. Model Training (Iterative Development):**
*   **V1 Model (Nov 16, 2025):** An initial model was trained for **50 epochs**. Analysis showed it was highly biased towards the 'Toyota' class due to an imbalanced dataset.
*   **V2 Model (Nov 18, 2025):** To address the bias, a second model was trained for **150 epochs** with **high-level data augmentation** (including random flips, rotations, and color changes). This forced the model to learn more robust features and significantly improved its overall accuracy.
*   All training was performed locally on an **NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 6GB GPU**, which was critical for accelerating the training process.

**3. Model Deployment:**
*   The final, improved V2 model weights (`best.pt`) were saved.
*   A web server was built using **FastAPI**, creating a `/predict` endpoint that accepts image uploads.
*   The API is served with Uvicorn, a high-performance ASGI server.

---

## Final Results & Analysis

The final V2 API successfully loads the improved model and makes predictions.

#### **Prediction Example (Correct Prediction):**
The V2 model correctly identifies a **Toyota** Prius.

![Correct Toyota Prediction](assets/toyota_prediction.png)

#### **Analysis of Model Weaknesses:**
Testing the V2 model revealed a more nuanced challenge. When given an image of a white BMW SUV, the model incorrectly predicted it as `kia` and `hyundai`, albeit with very low confidence scores (19% and 18%).

![Incorrect BMW Prediction](assets/bmw_prediction.png)

**Diagnosis:** This is a classic example of **low inter-class variance**. The model is confused by brands that have visually similar designs, such as modern SUVs. The low confidence scores indicate the model's uncertainty.

**Future Improvements:**
The clear next step for a V3 model would be **targeted data sourcing**. To resolve the confusion, one would need to add more training images specifically of the models and brands that are commonly mistaken for each other, forcing the model to learn the subtle, distinguishing features (like grille shape and headlight design).

This project demonstrates a real-world understanding of the iterative nature of ML development: build, test, analyze, and improve.

---

## Technology Stack

*   **Backend:** FastAPI, Uvicorn
*   **AI / Machine Learning:** PyTorch, YOLOv5
*   **Core Python Libraries:** Pillow, python-multipart

---

## How to Run This Project

Follow these steps to set up and run the project locally.

**1. Clone the repository:**

2. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment:
This project requires Python 3.11.
code
Bash
py -3.11 -m venv venv-gpu
.\venv-gpu\Scripts\activate
3. Install Dependencies:
code
Bash
pip install torch torchvision torau`dio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121
pip install -r yolov5/requirements.txt
pip install fastapi "uvicorn[standard]" python-multipart Pillow
4. Train Your Own Model (Optional):
Download the dataset from Roboflow and place it in the root folder. Then, update data.yaml with the correct local paths and run the training command from within the yolov5 folder.
5. Run the API Server:
(You must first have a trained best.pt file from training and update the path in main.py)
code
Bash
uvicorn main:app --reload```

**6. Test the API:**
Open your browser to `http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs` and use the interactive interface to upload an image to the `/predict` endpoint.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/car-brand-detection-API.git
cd car-brand-detection-API

Commit message:

Update README to note pending image addition
Updated README to indicate that the Toyota prediction image will be added later.

README.md, after:

# Car Brand Detection API

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11-blue)
![Framework](https://img.shields.io/badge/framework-FastAPI-green)
![Model](https://img.shields.io/badge/model-YOLOv5-orange)

This project is a complete, end-to-end machine learning application that identifies car brands from images. It uses a custom-trained YOLOv5 model, which has been fine-tuned to recognize 19 different car brands by learning their shapes and features, not just their logos. The final model is deployed as a high-performance web API using FastAPI.

This project was built step-by-step to bridge the gap between theoretical knowledge of the ML pipeline and a real-world, functional application that was iteratively improved based on performance analysis.

---

## Project Workflow

This project followed the complete end-to-end machine learning pipeline, including a full cycle of model analysis and improvement.

**1. Data Collection & Preparation:**
*   A high-quality dataset containing 19 car brands was sourced from Roboflow Universe.
*   The dataset was already pre-processed and labeled in the required YOLOv5 format.

**2. Model Training (Iterative Development):**
*   **V1 Model (Nov 16, 2025):** An initial model was trained for **50 epochs**. Analysis showed it was highly biased towards the 'Toyota' class due to an imbalanced dataset.
*   **V2 Model (Nov 18, 2025):** To address the bias, a second model was trained for **150 epochs** with **high-level data augmentation** (including random flips, rotations, and color changes). This forced the model to learn more robust features and significantly improved its overall accuracy.
*   All training was performed locally on an **NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 6GB GPU**, which was critical for accelerating the training process.

**3. Model Deployment:**
*   The final, improved V2 model weights (`best.pt`) were saved.
*   A web server was built using **FastAPI**, creating a `/predict` endpoint that accepts image uploads.
*   The API is served with Uvicorn, a high-performance ASGI server.

---

## Final Results & Analysis

The final V2 API successfully loads the improved model and makes predictions.

#### **Prediction Example (Correct Prediction):**
The V2 model correctly identifies a **Toyota** Prius.

![Correct Toyota Prediction](assets/toyota_prediction.png) (will add the image later)

#### **Analysis of Model Weaknesses:**
Testing the V2 model revealed a more nuanced challenge. When given an image of a white BMW SUV, the model incorrectly predicted it as `kia` and `hyundai`, albeit with very low confidence scores (19% and 18%).

![Incorrect BMW Prediction](assets/bmw_prediction.png)

**Diagnosis:** This is a classic example of **low inter-class variance**. The model is confused by brands that have visually similar designs, such as modern SUVs. The low confidence scores indicate the model's uncertainty.

**Future Improvements:**
The clear next step for a V3 model would be **targeted data sourcing**. To resolve the confusion, one would need to add more training images specifically of the models and brands that are commonly mistaken for each other, forcing the model to learn the subtle, distinguishing features (like grille shape and headlight design).

This project demonstrates a real-world understanding of the iterative nature of ML development: build, test, analyze, and improve.

---

## Technology Stack

*   **Backend:** FastAPI, Uvicorn
*   **AI / Machine Learning:** PyTorch, YOLOv5
*   **Core Python Libraries:** Pillow, python-multipart

---

## How to Run This Project

Follow these steps to set up and run the project locally.

**1. Clone the repository:**

2. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment:
This project requires Python 3.11.
code
Bash
py -3.11 -m venv venv-gpu
.\venv-gpu\Scripts\activate
3. Install Dependencies:
code
Bash
pip install torch torchvision torau`dio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121
pip install -r yolov5/requirements.txt
pip install fastapi "uvicorn[standard]" python-multipart Pillow
4. Train Your Own Model (Optional):
Download the dataset from Roboflow and place it in the root folder. Then, update data.yaml with the correct local paths and run the training command from within the yolov5 folder.
5. Run the API Server:
(You must first have a trained best.pt file from training and update the path in main.py)
code
Bash
uvicorn main:app --reload```

**6. Test the API:**
Open your browser to `http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs` and use the interactive interface to upload an image to the `/predict` endpoint.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/car-brand-detection-API.git
cd car-brand-detection-API
